
MAKING A POSTER USING LATEX 

The best information I found about making a poster using Latex 
was at the web page: 

http://www.astro.gla.ac.uk/users/norman/docs/posters/

Everything I needed to do it is in the current directory. 


CONSTRUCTING THE POSTER IN LATEX  

latex poster.tex
xdvi -s 20 poster.dvi 

Iterate on the above commands as you construct the poster.  The files 

a0poster.cls
a0size.sty 
textpos.sty 

must be in your current working directory or in a directory searched by Latex. 

Notes within the file explain the texput command that allows you to place
freely on the poster. 


PRODUCING A POSTSCRIPT FILE 

When ready to print...

xdvi -o poster.ps poster.dvi  

makes .ps file.   

psnup -w85cm -h119cm -f poster.ps poster-cl.ps 

corrects a problem with landscape orientation (cut off edge).
Next, manually changed bounding box in poster-cl.ps to 

%%BoundingBox: 0 0 2383 3370

that is, edit the .ps file using vi or pico or something. 
After editing my poster was renamed as poster-cl-bb.ps 

To view the postscript poster

gv -landscape poster-cl-bb.ps % looks good! 

CONVERTING TO PDF 

I couldn't get ps2pdf to do the conversion well. However, GhostView on Windows
XP exported it just fine (select "export" followed by "pdfwrite").  There may
be a better way, but for now, put your file on a zip disk and make the
conversion on one of the Windows machines in the lab.  My pdf poster was
exported as poster-cl-bb-pdfwrite.pdf 

The pdf poster can now be viewed acroread and can be printed out at Kinko's or
elsewhere.  As resizing pdf files seems to be an easy matter, it's not clear
how much of the above resizing was really necessary.  If you find you can fix a
step, let me know.  The "proof" is that it looks okay in acroread when your
modified process is complete.  Write a script to do these steps to save time,
but keep the intermediate files around so you can trouble-shoot.    

SMALL VERSION FOR HANDOUTS 

To make a miniature version of the poster to hand out at a conference: 

a0toa4.pl poster-cl.ps 

The Perl script makes an a4 size version, which you can view using 

gv -media A4 -landscape poster-cl_a4.ps 

and print with 

lpr poster-cl_a4.ps 

Of course, if you don't have A4 paper in the tray, the poster won't completely
fit on the page.  If you want a letter sized version, 

psresize -PA4 -pletter poster-cl_a4.ps poster-cl_letter.ps 
lpr poster-cl_letter.ps 

coverts A4 to LETTER paper and prints. 

FINAL NOTES 

There are two directories here: 

original: 

   Contains poster-template-landscape.tex and poster-template-portrait.tex 
   If you feel like it is easier to start from "scratch" rather than using my poster, 
   begin with poster-template-landscape.tex 

textpos: 
   
   stuff that made textpos.sty; at this point you only need the .sty file

